Last thing to talk about here.
Let's talk about sub
commands really quick.
Let's say, I wanna know,
I have the string that I wanna output.
Let's just do what I have right there.
I can say echo, I think and then I wanna
run who am I in the middle of here.
So if I put dollar sign, and
then I put parentheses here,
and I put who am I right there,
is a really cool user.
It's actually going to go in and
it's going to run a sub Command here.
So it's actually going to execute
a separate command here and
run whatever between the parentheses,
whatever that returns,
whatever that returns to standard out.
It's going to put that there, or
whatever we would have piped right?
That makes sense.
So this is a subcommand.
So I can do echo the current
date is $(date), right?
So that's really useful, it's useful for
doing something in a subcommand,
getting all that information, and
returning it back up to
the higher process basically.
So let's say you had a job or
like a some sort of task that's running
every day that just goes in and
checks the date and it checks
the uptime and attaches that to a file.
The way you could do that is echo Date and
then you can do plus percent x and
that'll just give you the date.
It won't give you like
the rest of the time.
I just found that from
the man from the manual.
And then I can do a second sub
command here for the uptime.
And I can run that and
put that into log.txt like that.
And now if I look at log.txt,
you can see here, here's the date.
Here's the dash that we put right there,
right?
And here's the uptime, right?
And I can run that a bunch of times.
And if I look at log.txt, you can see
here, this was what your lot like
each line would be like one entry
in your log or something like that.
So how often do I use sub commands,
once every 3 months like I don't
use them that often but the times
that they end up coming in useful,
like, I'm very happy I know what they are.
Yeah, anything inside of that dollar sign,
parentheses there, it can be anything.
It could be echo.
You could be.
Did not like that.
Yeah, cuz it was trying to anyway, trying
to tab completion was not something where
you wanna be doing that cat log.txt,
right?
So I was able to read in the file
to standard in and then cat that.
And then have that return from the
subprocess and then have that return here.
So that's why it says hi and
then user at the end, and then,
all of log.txt in there.
One last thing here, you will see
another older way of doing this and
say hi, and then you can put backticks.
And you'll notice that that
actually ends up working as well.
This is the old way of doing it.
In fact, I was reading that it's
like very old, like it hasn't been,
like the primary way of doing that for
many, many years.
But they still include it for backwards
compatibility purposes.Always just
do the dollar sign parentheses because
it's it's a superior way of doing that.
For one, you can nest them.
So you can actually have
multiple sub commands nested,
whereas with backticks,
that wouldn't, that does not work.
And it's less ambiguous.
It's easier to read.
It's just a better way of doing it and
there's more options of what you can do.
But I include the backticks just so that
so, if you read in like a Stack Overflow
answer backticks also will execute
something as a sub command.
>> Can you discuss the other
columns of ps aux.
>> Maybe, I ignore most of them so
alright so
user that will make sense right?
PID, CPU percentage usage, right.
So you can, [COUGH] I think you
can actually sort this, and so
you can see if you have something
that's pegging your CPU,
you can figure out what that is and
you can kill it.
Same with percentage memory.
I do not know what VSZ,
I don't know what any of these are, TTY.
STAT, START, obviously START is
when you start it, TIME is how long
it's been running, and the COMMAND
is obviously what you're running.
But for these ones in the middle, I would
just have to go look up what they are.
But suffice to say
they're not important or
I haven't had to know
them in my entire career.
So they're not important for me to know.
If I don't know what it's not important,
but
I'm just gonna I just I've
never had to look it up.
>> Speaking of environments Pass and
putting them in your profile.
How do you know which file your
computer is actually running,
if it's a profile or
a batch profile or bash RC?
>> That's a good question.
Your login shell like whenever you
log into a new session of bash,
it will always read bash
RC 100% of the time.
I believe it should read read bash
RC bash profile will only run on
the First interactive shell
that's invoked that day.
And then different shells have
different files names, but
they usually kind of follow the same
thing like ZSH is ZSHRC, Right.
I don't think they have a ZSH profile.
I think they just have ZSH.
RRC same with fish cell it's dot fish RC.
So,just stick to the dot
name of the shell RC file
in your home directory and
you'll be golden